README.md, before:

# LaikaTest Prompts Client

JavaScript SDK for fetching LaikaTest prompt templates via API. Zero dependencies, intelligent caching, and easy-to-use interface.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @laikatest/js-client
```

## Quick Start

```javascript
const { LaikaTest } = require('@laikatest/js-client');

// Initialize client with your API key
const client = new LaikaTest('your-api-key-here');

// Fetch a prompt
const prompt = await client.getPrompt('greeting-prompt');
console.log(prompt.getContent());

// Compile with variables
const compiled = prompt.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
console.log(compiled.getContent());

// Don't forget to cleanup when done
client.destroy();
```

## Authentication

### Getting Your API Key

1. Log in to your LaikaTest dashboard
2. Navigate to Settings → API Keys
3. Create a new API key
4. Copy the key and store it securely (e.g., in environment variables)

## Basic Usage

### Fetching Current Version

By default, `getPrompt()` fetches the current published version of a prompt:

```javascript
const { LaikaTest } = require('@laikatest/js-client');

const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY);

try {
  const result = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message');
  console.log('Prompt content:', result.getContent());
  const compiled = result.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
  console.log('Compiled content:', compiled.getContent());
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error fetching prompt:', error.message);
} finally {
  client.destroy();
}
```

### Fetching Specific Version

To fetch a specific version of a prompt, provide the version ID (numeric format):

```javascript
const result = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
  versionId: '10'  // or 'v10'
});

console.log('Version content:', result.getContent());
const compiled = result.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
console.log('Compiled:', compiled.getContent());
```

### Bypassing Cache

To force a fresh fetch from the API, bypassing the cache:

```javascript
const result = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
  bypassCache: true
});
```

## Configuration Options

You can customize the client behavior with configuration options:

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey, {
  // Base URL for the API (default: 'https://api.laikatest.com')
  baseUrl: 'https://api.laikatest.com',

  // Request timeout in milliseconds (default: 10000)
  timeout: 15000,

  // Cache TTL in milliseconds (default: 1800000 - 30 minutes)
  cacheTTL: 60 * 60 * 1000, // 1 hour

  // Enable/disable caching (default: true)
  cacheEnabled: true
});
```

## Caching Behavior

The client implements intelligent caching to minimize API calls:

- **Default TTL**: 30 minutes (configurable)
- **Cache Key**: Combines prompt name and version ID (if specified)
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Expired entries removed every 5 minutes
- **Memory Efficient**: Stores only prompt content and metadata

### Cache Control

```javascript
// Disable caching entirely
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey, {
  cacheEnabled: false
});

// Adjust cache TTL to 1 hour
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey, {
  cacheTTL: 60 * 60 * 1000
});

// Bypass cache for a single request
const result = await client.getPrompt('prompt-name', {
  bypassCache: true
});
```

## Error Handling

The client provides specific error classes for different failure scenarios:

```javascript
const {
  LaikaTest,
  LaikaServiceError,
  NetworkError,
  ValidationError,
  AuthenticationError
} = require('@laikatest/js-client');

try {
  const result = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof ValidationError) {
    // Invalid input (empty prompt name, invalid IDs, etc.)
    console.error('Validation error:', error.message);
  } else if (error instanceof AuthenticationError) {
    // Invalid API key or authentication failed
    console.error('Authentication error:', error.message);
  } else if (error instanceof NetworkError) {
    // Network issues, timeout, connection failed
    console.error('Network error:', error.message);
  } else if (error instanceof LaikaServiceError) {
    // API returned an error (404, 403, 500, etc.)
    console.error('Service error:', error.message);
    console.error('Status code:', error.statusCode);
  } else {
    // Unexpected error
    console.error('Unexpected error:', error);
  }
}
```

### Common Error Scenarios

| Error Type | Cause | Solution |
|------------|-------|----------|
| `ValidationError` | Empty prompt name or invalid version ID | Check your inputs (version must be numeric like "10" or "v10") |
| `AuthenticationError` | Invalid API key | Verify your API key |
| `LaikaServiceError` (404) | Prompt not found | Check prompt name and project |
| `LaikaServiceError` (403) | Access denied | Verify project ownership |
| `NetworkError` | Connection timeout | Check network/API availability |

## API Reference

### `new LaikaTest(apiKey, options?)`

Creates a new client instance.

**Parameters:**
- `apiKey` (string, required): Your LaikaTest API key
- `options` (object, optional): Configuration options

**Options:**
- `baseUrl` (string): API base URL (default: `'https://api.laikatest.com'`)
- `timeout` (number): Request timeout in ms (default: `10000`)
- `cacheTTL` (number): Cache time-to-live in ms (default: `1800000`)
- `cacheEnabled` (boolean): Enable caching (default: `true`)

### `client.getPrompt(promptName, options?)`

Fetches prompt content by name.

**Parameters:**
- `promptName` (string, required): Name of the prompt template
- `options` (object, optional): Fetch options

**Options:**
- `versionId` (string): Specific version to fetch (numeric format: "10" or "v10")
- `bypassCache` (boolean): Force fresh API fetch

**Returns:** `Promise<Prompt>`

**Throws:**
- `ValidationError`: Invalid inputs (e.g., empty prompt name, invalid version ID format)
- `AuthenticationError`: Auth failure
- `NetworkError`: Network issues
- `LaikaServiceError`: API errors

### `prompt.getContent()`

Returns the content of the prompt.

**Returns:** The prompt content (string, array, or object)

### `prompt.compile(variables)`

Compiles the prompt by injecting variables into `{{placeholders}}`.

**Parameters:**
- `variables` (object): Key/value pairs for placeholder replacement

**Returns:** A new `Prompt` instance with the compiled content. Use `getContent()` to access the compiled result.

### `client.destroy()`

Cleanup resources and stop background processes. Always call this when done.

## Best Practices

### 1. Use Environment Variables

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY);
```

### 2. Always Call destroy()

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey);

try {
  const prompt = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
  // Use prompt...
} finally {
  client.destroy(); // Cleanup
}
```

### 3. Handle Errors Gracefully

```javascript
try {
  const prompt = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
  return prompt.getContent();
} catch (error) {
  // Log error and provide fallback
  console.error('Failed to fetch prompt:', error);
  return 'Default fallback prompt content';
}
```

### 4. Reuse Client Instances

Create one client instance and reuse it for multiple requests:

```javascript
// Good: Reuse client
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt1 = await client.getPrompt('prompt-1');
const prompt2 = await client.getPrompt('prompt-2');
client.destroy();

// Avoid: Creating multiple clients
const client1 = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt1 = await client1.getPrompt('prompt-1');
client1.destroy();

const client2 = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt2 = await client2.getPrompt('prompt-2');
client2.destroy();
```

### 5. Use TypeScript for Type Safety

```typescript
import { LaikaTest, Prompt } from '@laikatest/js-client';

const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt: Prompt = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
const compiled = prompt.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
const content = compiled.getContent();
```

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```javascript
const { LaikaTest } = require('@laikatest/js-client');

const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY);

try {
  // Fetch current version
  const prompt = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message');
  console.log(prompt.getContent());

  // Fetch specific version
  const versioned = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
    versionId: '10'  // or 'v10'
  });
  console.log(versioned.getContent());

  // Bypass cache
  const fresh = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
    bypassCache: true
  });
  console.log(fresh.getContent());
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error:', error.message);
} finally {
  client.destroy();
}
```

### Custom Configuration

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY, {
  timeout: 15000,
  cacheTTL: 60 * 60 * 1000, // 1 hour
  cacheEnabled: true
});
```


## Requirements

- Node.js >= 12.0.0
- No external dependencies

## License

MIT

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/laikatest/prompts-client-js/issues
- Documentation: https://docs.laikatest.com
- Email: support@laikatest.com

Commit message:

Add experiment evaluation functionality and update README (#4)
* Add experiment evaluation functionality and update README

- Implement `getExperimentPrompt()` method in LaikaTest class for evaluating experiments.
- Add validation for experiment title in validation utilities.
- Introduce experiment-related utilities for handling API requests.
- Update README with usage examples for the new experiment evaluation feature.
- Modify HTTP request utility to handle request body.
- Update package version to 1.0.2.
- Add tests for the new experiment prompt functionality.

* Enhance Prompt class and experiment evaluation to include experimentId and bucketId

* Add getBucketId method to Prompt class and implement bucket distribution tests

README.md, after:

# LaikaTest Prompts Client

JavaScript SDK for fetching LaikaTest prompt templates via API. Zero dependencies, intelligent caching, and easy-to-use interface.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @laikatest/js-client
```

## Quick Start

```javascript
const { LaikaTest } = require('@laikatest/js-client');

// Initialize client with your API key
const client = new LaikaTest('your-api-key-here');

// Fetch a prompt
const prompt = await client.getPrompt('greeting-prompt');
console.log(prompt.getContent());

// Compile with variables
const compiled = prompt.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
console.log(compiled.getContent());

// Don't forget to cleanup when done
client.destroy();
```

## Authentication

### Getting Your API Key

1. Log in to your LaikaTest dashboard
2. Navigate to Settings → API Keys
3. Create a new API key
4. Copy the key and store it securely (e.g., in environment variables)

## Basic Usage

### Fetching Current Version

By default, `getPrompt()` fetches the current published version of a prompt:

```javascript
const { LaikaTest } = require('@laikatest/js-client');

const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY);

try {
  const result = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message');
  console.log('Prompt content:', result.getContent());
  const compiled = result.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
  console.log('Compiled content:', compiled.getContent());
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error fetching prompt:', error.message);
} finally {
  client.destroy();
}
```

### Fetching Specific Version

To fetch a specific version of a prompt, provide the version ID (numeric format):

```javascript
const result = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
  versionId: '10'  // or 'v10'
});

console.log('Version content:', result.getContent());
const compiled = result.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
console.log('Compiled:', compiled.getContent());
```

### Bypassing Cache

To force a fresh fetch from the API, bypassing the cache:

```javascript
const result = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
  bypassCache: true
});
```

### Evaluating Experiments

Use `getExperimentPrompt()` to evaluate an experiment and automatically retrieve the prompt tied to the assigned group:

```javascript
const experiment = await client.getExperimentPrompt('homepage-layout-test', {
  user_id: 'abc-123',
  plan: 'pro'
});

console.log('Prompt content:', experiment.getContent());
```

The method returns both the assigned experiment group and a `Prompt` instance, so you can keep using helpers like `compile()` on the experiment result.

## Configuration Options

You can customize the client behavior with configuration options:

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey, {
  // Base URL for the API (default: 'https://api.laikatest.com')
  baseUrl: 'https://api.laikatest.com',

  // Request timeout in milliseconds (default: 10000)
  timeout: 15000,

  // Cache TTL in milliseconds (default: 1800000 - 30 minutes)
  cacheTTL: 60 * 60 * 1000, // 1 hour

  // Enable/disable caching (default: true)
  cacheEnabled: true
});
```

## Caching Behavior

The client implements intelligent caching to minimize API calls:

- **Default TTL**: 30 minutes (configurable)
- **Cache Key**: Combines prompt name and version ID (if specified)
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Expired entries removed every 5 minutes
- **Memory Efficient**: Stores only prompt content and metadata

### Cache Control

```javascript
// Disable caching entirely
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey, {
  cacheEnabled: false
});

// Adjust cache TTL to 1 hour
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey, {
  cacheTTL: 60 * 60 * 1000
});

// Bypass cache for a single request
const result = await client.getPrompt('prompt-name', {
  bypassCache: true
});
```

## Error Handling

The client provides specific error classes for different failure scenarios:

```javascript
const {
  LaikaTest,
  LaikaServiceError,
  NetworkError,
  ValidationError,
  AuthenticationError
} = require('@laikatest/js-client');

try {
  const result = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof ValidationError) {
    // Invalid input (empty prompt name, invalid IDs, etc.)
    console.error('Validation error:', error.message);
  } else if (error instanceof AuthenticationError) {
    // Invalid API key or authentication failed
    console.error('Authentication error:', error.message);
  } else if (error instanceof NetworkError) {
    // Network issues, timeout, connection failed
    console.error('Network error:', error.message);
  } else if (error instanceof LaikaServiceError) {
    // API returned an error (404, 403, 500, etc.)
    console.error('Service error:', error.message);
    console.error('Status code:', error.statusCode);
  } else {
    // Unexpected error
    console.error('Unexpected error:', error);
  }
}
```

### Common Error Scenarios

| Error Type | Cause | Solution |
|------------|-------|----------|
| `ValidationError` | Empty prompt name or invalid version ID | Check your inputs (version must be numeric like "10" or "v10") |
| `AuthenticationError` | Invalid API key | Verify your API key |
| `LaikaServiceError` (404) | Prompt not found | Check prompt name and project |
| `LaikaServiceError` (403) | Access denied | Verify project ownership |
| `NetworkError` | Connection timeout | Check network/API availability |

## API Reference

### `new LaikaTest(apiKey, options?)`

Creates a new client instance.

**Parameters:**
- `apiKey` (string, required): Your LaikaTest API key
- `options` (object, optional): Configuration options

**Options:**
- `baseUrl` (string): API base URL (default: `'https://api.laikatest.com'`)
- `timeout` (number): Request timeout in ms (default: `10000`)
- `cacheTTL` (number): Cache time-to-live in ms (default: `1800000`)
- `cacheEnabled` (boolean): Enable caching (default: `true`)

### `client.getPrompt(promptName, options?)`

Fetches prompt content by name.

**Parameters:**
- `promptName` (string, required): Name of the prompt template
- `options` (object, optional): Fetch options

**Options:**
- `versionId` (string): Specific version to fetch (numeric format: "10" or "v10")
- `bypassCache` (boolean): Force fresh API fetch

**Returns:** `Promise<Prompt>`

**Throws:**
- `ValidationError`: Invalid inputs (e.g., empty prompt name, invalid version ID format)
- `AuthenticationError`: Auth failure
- `NetworkError`: Network issues
- `LaikaServiceError`: API errors

### `prompt.getContent()`

Returns the content of the prompt.

**Returns:** The prompt content (string, array, or object)

### `prompt.compile(variables)`

Compiles the prompt by injecting variables into `{{placeholders}}`.

**Parameters:**
- `variables` (object): Key/value pairs for placeholder replacement

**Returns:** A new `Prompt` instance with the compiled content. Use `getContent()` to access the compiled result.

### `client.destroy()`

Cleanup resources and stop background processes. Always call this when done.

## Best Practices

### 1. Use Environment Variables

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY);
```

### 2. Always Call destroy()

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey);

try {
  const prompt = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
  // Use prompt...
} finally {
  client.destroy(); // Cleanup
}
```

### 3. Handle Errors Gracefully

```javascript
try {
  const prompt = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
  return prompt.getContent();
} catch (error) {
  // Log error and provide fallback
  console.error('Failed to fetch prompt:', error);
  return 'Default fallback prompt content';
}
```

### 4. Reuse Client Instances

Create one client instance and reuse it for multiple requests:

```javascript
// Good: Reuse client
const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt1 = await client.getPrompt('prompt-1');
const prompt2 = await client.getPrompt('prompt-2');
client.destroy();

// Avoid: Creating multiple clients
const client1 = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt1 = await client1.getPrompt('prompt-1');
client1.destroy();

const client2 = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt2 = await client2.getPrompt('prompt-2');
client2.destroy();
```

### 5. Use TypeScript for Type Safety

```typescript
import { LaikaTest, Prompt } from '@laikatest/js-client';

const client = new LaikaTest(apiKey);
const prompt: Prompt = await client.getPrompt('my-prompt');
const compiled = prompt.compile({ name: 'Ada' });
const content = compiled.getContent();
```

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```javascript
const { LaikaTest } = require('@laikatest/js-client');

const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY);

try {
  // Fetch current version
  const prompt = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message');
  console.log(prompt.getContent());

  // Fetch specific version
  const versioned = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
    versionId: '10'  // or 'v10'
  });
  console.log(versioned.getContent());

  // Bypass cache
  const fresh = await client.getPrompt('welcome-message', {
    bypassCache: true
  });
  console.log(fresh.getContent());
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error:', error.message);
} finally {
  client.destroy();
}
```

### Custom Configuration

```javascript
const client = new LaikaTest(process.env.LAIKATEST_API_KEY, {
  timeout: 15000,
  cacheTTL: 60 * 60 * 1000, // 1 hour
  cacheEnabled: true
});
```


## Requirements

- Node.js >= 12.0.0
- No external dependencies

## License

MIT

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/laikatest/prompts-client-js/issues
- Documentation: https://docs.laikatest.com
- Email: support@laikatest.com
