packages/sdk/examples/README.md, before:

# @laikatest/sdk Examples

Ready-to-run demo projects showcasing different use cases for the LaikaTest unified SDK.

## Prerequisites

1. **LaikaTest API Key**: Get one from [LaikaTest Dashboard](https://laikatest.com)
2. **OpenAI API Key**: Get one from [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com)
3. **Node.js 18+**

## Available Demos

| Demo | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [01-basic-tracing](./01-basic-tracing) | Automatic OpenTelemetry tracing for OpenAI calls |
| [02-ab-testing](./02-ab-testing) | Experiment prompt fetching and score tracking |
| [03-express-server](./03-express-server) | SDK integration in an Express.js web server |
| [04-ai-native-tracing](./04-ai-native-tracing) | AI-native semantic tracing API for RAG, agents, and custom workflows |

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Navigate to a demo
cd 01-basic-tracing

# 2. Install dependencies
npm install

# 3. Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys

# 4. Run the demo
npm start
```

## Demo Overview

### 01-basic-tracing

The simplest example - shows how to:
- Initialize the SDK with just your API key
- Set session and user context for trace grouping
- Make OpenAI calls that are automatically traced
- Properly shutdown the SDK

### 02-ab-testing

Demonstrates A/B testing features:
- Fetch experiment prompts with automatic bucketing
- Access the assigned variant and prompt content
- Track outcome scores for experiment analysis
- Experiment context is auto-injected into traces

### 03-express-server

Full server integration pattern:
- SDK initialization at server startup
- Middleware for per-request context (session/user from headers)
- API endpoints that leverage tracing
- Graceful shutdown on SIGTERM

### 04-ai-native-tracing

AI-native semantic tracing API:
- RAG pipeline tracing (retrieval, rerank, generation)
- Agent workflow tracing (agent, tool, step)
- LLM operations (generation, evaluation)
- Generic spans for custom use cases with attributes and events

## Viewing Traces

After running a demo, view your traces in the [LaikaTest Dashboard](https://laikatest.com):

1. Go to **Tracing** tab
2. Find traces from your service name
3. See OpenAI call details, token usage, latency, and custom context

Commit message:

Document that calling shutdown() is mandatory
Add clear documentation across all SDK docs and examples that calling
laika.shutdown() before process exit is mandatory to ensure traces are
flushed and resources are cleaned up properly.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01DEF6juAzbUYUgjrxpmMxeT

packages/sdk/examples/README.md, after:

# @laikatest/sdk Examples

Ready-to-run demo projects showcasing different use cases for the LaikaTest unified SDK.

## Prerequisites

1. **LaikaTest API Key**: Get one from [LaikaTest Dashboard](https://laikatest.com)
2. **OpenAI API Key**: Get one from [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com)
3. **Node.js 18+**

## Available Demos

| Demo | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [01-basic-tracing](./01-basic-tracing) | Automatic OpenTelemetry tracing for OpenAI calls |
| [02-ab-testing](./02-ab-testing) | Experiment prompt fetching and score tracking |
| [03-express-server](./03-express-server) | SDK integration in an Express.js web server |
| [04-ai-native-tracing](./04-ai-native-tracing) | AI-native semantic tracing API for RAG, agents, and custom workflows |

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Navigate to a demo
cd 01-basic-tracing

# 2. Install dependencies
npm install

# 3. Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys

# 4. Run the demo
npm start
```

## Demo Overview

### 01-basic-tracing

The simplest example - shows how to:
- Initialize the SDK with just your API key
- Set session and user context for trace grouping
- Make OpenAI calls that are automatically traced
- **Properly shutdown the SDK (mandatory)**

### 02-ab-testing

Demonstrates A/B testing features:
- Fetch experiment prompts with automatic bucketing
- Access the assigned variant and prompt content
- Track outcome scores for experiment analysis
- Experiment context is auto-injected into traces

### 03-express-server

Full server integration pattern:
- SDK initialization at server startup
- Middleware for per-request context (session/user from headers)
- API endpoints that leverage tracing
- **Graceful shutdown on SIGTERM (mandatory)**

### 04-ai-native-tracing

AI-native semantic tracing API:
- RAG pipeline tracing (retrieval, rerank, generation)
- Agent workflow tracing (agent, tool, step)
- LLM operations (generation, evaluation)
- Generic spans for custom use cases with attributes and events

## Important: Mandatory Shutdown

All examples demonstrate calling `laika.shutdown()` before process exit. **This is mandatory** to ensure:

- All pending traces are flushed to the server
- Resources are properly cleaned up
- No data is lost

For short-lived scripts:
```typescript
await laika.shutdown();
```

For long-running servers:
```typescript
process.on('SIGTERM', async () => {
  await laika.shutdown();
  process.exit(0);
});
```

## Viewing Traces

After running a demo, view your traces in the [LaikaTest Dashboard](https://laikatest.com):

1. Go to **Tracing** tab
2. Find traces from your service name
3. See OpenAI call details, token usage, latency, and custom context
