packages/sdk/examples/02-ab-testing/README.md, before:

# A/B Testing Demo

Demonstrates experiment prompt fetching and score tracking using `@laikatest/sdk`.

## What This Demo Shows

- **Experiment Prompts**: Fetch A/B tested prompts with `getExperimentPrompt()`
- **Automatic Bucketing**: Users are consistently assigned to variants
- **Score Tracking**: Track outcomes with `prompt.pushScore()` for analysis
- **Trace Integration**: Experiment context is auto-injected into traces

## Prerequisites

Before running this demo, create an experiment in LaikaTest:

1. Go to [LaikaTest Dashboard](https://laikatest.com)
2. Create a new experiment titled `demo-experiment`
3. Add at least 2 variants with different system prompts
4. Start the experiment

## Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Copy and edit environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Add your API keys to .env
```

## Run

```bash
npm start
```

## Expected Output

```
Laika SDK initialized
Tracing enabled: true
Experiments enabled: true

User ID: user-abc123

Fetching experiment: demo-experiment
Experiment ID: exp-xyz789
Bucket/Variant ID: variant-a
Prompt Version ID: pv-123
Prompt Content: You are a helpful assistant...

Making OpenAI request with experiment prompt...

Response: Hello! I'm here to help...

Pushing score...
Score pushed: Success

Shutting down...
Done!
```

## How A/B Testing Works

1. **User Bucketing**: When you call `getExperimentPrompt()` with a `userId`, that user is consistently assigned to the same variant
2. **Prompt Retrieval**: The SDK returns the prompt content for the assigned variant
3. **Score Tracking**: Call `pushScore()` to record outcomes (success rate, ratings, etc.)
4. **Analysis**: View experiment results in the LaikaTest dashboard

## Customizing

Edit `index.ts` to:
- Change `EXPERIMENT_TITLE` to match your experiment
- Modify the scores tracked based on your success metrics
- Use actual user IDs instead of random ones

Commit message:

Document that calling shutdown() is mandatory
Add clear documentation across all SDK docs and examples that calling
laika.shutdown() before process exit is mandatory to ensure traces are
flushed and resources are cleaned up properly.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01DEF6juAzbUYUgjrxpmMxeT

packages/sdk/examples/02-ab-testing/README.md, after:

# A/B Testing Demo

Demonstrates experiment prompt fetching and score tracking using `@laikatest/sdk`.

## What This Demo Shows

- **Experiment Prompts**: Fetch A/B tested prompts with `getExperimentPrompt()`
- **Automatic Bucketing**: Users are consistently assigned to variants
- **Score Tracking**: Track outcomes with `prompt.pushScore()` for analysis
- **Trace Integration**: Experiment context is auto-injected into traces

## Prerequisites

Before running this demo, create an experiment in LaikaTest:

1. Go to [LaikaTest Dashboard](https://laikatest.com)
2. Create a new experiment titled `demo-experiment`
3. Add at least 2 variants with different system prompts
4. Start the experiment

## Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Copy and edit environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Add your API keys to .env
```

## Run

```bash
npm start
```

## Expected Output

```
Laika SDK initialized
Tracing enabled: true
Experiments enabled: true

User ID: user-abc123

Fetching experiment: demo-experiment
Experiment ID: exp-xyz789
Bucket/Variant ID: variant-a
Prompt Version ID: pv-123
Prompt Content: You are a helpful assistant...

Making OpenAI request with experiment prompt...

Response: Hello! I'm here to help...

Pushing score...
Score pushed: Success

Shutting down...
Done!
```

## How A/B Testing Works

1. **User Bucketing**: When you call `getExperimentPrompt()` with a `userId`, that user is consistently assigned to the same variant
2. **Prompt Retrieval**: The SDK returns the prompt content for the assigned variant
3. **Score Tracking**: Call `pushScore()` to record outcomes (success rate, ratings, etc.)
4. **Analysis**: View experiment results in the LaikaTest dashboard

## Important: Mandatory Shutdown

Always call `laika.shutdown()` before your process exits. This ensures all traces are flushed and resources are cleaned up. Failing to call shutdown may result in lost data.

## Customizing

Edit `index.ts` to:
- Change `EXPERIMENT_TITLE` to match your experiment
- Modify the scores tracked based on your success metrics
- Use actual user IDs instead of random ones
